# <p style="text-align: center;" align="center">Testicle</p>

<p style="text-align: center;" align="center">Extract tests from your project source using simple and flexible rules.</p>

This project was developed to easy the stress of manually writing test for every functions, classes, methods e.t.c in projects 
which is manage by a small or indie team which has less resources and time to manually write test. 

The project generates tests for various programming language using **Rules**. The rules are defined instruction the program 
follows in order to generate tests. The rules differs by programming languages as their are different testing frameworks for the 
languages. 

Tests generated by this program can be run by the various languages test runner such as JUnit for java, pytest for pyhton e.t.c 
sometimes, most time, every time the test should still be reviewed by real human. TDD is currently not valued in this context.
___

# Table of content
- [Usage](usage)
- [Building and Installing](#building-and-installing)
- [Writing Rules](#writing-rules)
- [Examples](#examples)

# Usage

# Building and Installing

This program was written in [simple-lang](https://github.com/simple-lang/simple) so you need to have simple-lang installed on your system 
before building the project from source. Follow the instruction below to build an executable on your system. Supply the bake configuration 
flag base on your build type. `debug, release, distributable`. The distributable flag generates executables that can be archived and shared
to be executed on other system.

```bash
cd testicles
simple bake conf.sim debug
```

This will generates appropriates binaries in the *build* folder. The **bake** build instructions is defined in the [conf.sim](./conf.sim) file. 
To Install the program from source as a simple-lang environment app add the flag `--install` to the second command.

```bash
cd testicles
simple bake conf.sim release --install
```

It will be installed as a simple-lang environment and can be executed like `simple testicles [testicles..arguments]`.


# Writing Rules

# Examples

Generating the test for this project 

```
cd testicles/test/
testicles Sample.sim --test_build_folder=/test/ 
```

The test file `TestSample.sim` will be generated at [tests](./tests/) as set in the conf.sim. The following test will be generated 

```simple
from simple.core.Object
from simple.core.Assertion

class TestSample
	
	var TestSample1
		
	block BeforeTest()
		TestSample1 = new Sample()
	end
	
	block TestDisplayName()
		Assert(IsString(TestSample1.DisplayName()))
		AssertNotEquals("SampleTest Not", TestSample1.DisplayName()) 
	end
	
end

```